MAKE YOUR OWN

If you are a public defender’s office or advocacy group interested in making a similar chatbot for your state, please do not hesitate to contact me, whether you're merely exploring the idea, are interested in the concerns we addressed with ours, have technical questions, need to contract a developer, or just want some tips to get started on your own.

Reach me at https://skydriftmedia.com/contact, where you have your choice of using my email address, my social media to send a private message, or an online form.

Here are the general steps to making your own expungement-eligibility chatbot.
1. Get a solid grasp on your jurisdiction’s expungement law, policies, and procedures.
2. Map the decision information.
   - Simple option: Map the info as linearly as possible. For example, if you put it into a flow chart, you would want most of the operations to be in a straight line, without a lot of branching or loops, from start to finish.
   - Advanced option: Map the info in terms of (a) all the variables you might need to know, (b) all the relevant values, (c) all the calculations you might need to make, and (d) all the logical structure’s rules. For example, for the variable "offense level", the values might be "felony type C", "felony type B", and "misdemeanor type A" or whatever relevant labels your jurisdiction uses, a calculation for the variable "time passed" might be "current date minus date of conviction, rounded down to nearest year", and a rule might be "if offense level is misdemeanor type A, then time passed must be greater than two years".
3. Use the map to write interactive questions, responses, explanations, and next steps. Use non-legalese, plain language. Also write any introductory language that your office deems necessary (such as, you know, “This chatbot is not your lawyer.”).
4. Code your chatbot.
   - Simple option: Use QnA Markup, an amazing tool from Suffolk University Law School's LIT Lab and "for people with little or no programming experience. It was designed with attorneys in mind and transforms blocks of text into interactive question and answer sessions (QnAs)." Get started at https://www.qnamarkup.org/ .
   - Advanced option: Use docassemble. You've already done the bulk of the work by mapping the logic structure. Get started at https://docassemble.org/ .
5. Style and design.
6. Test on website and debug.
6. Go live.

All the best with your post-disposition justice efforts.

~ Dawn I
